load_test/README.md, before:

# Load Tests

This directory contains code for load tests for assessing the performance and
scalability of the TTS service.

The tests are executed via [k6](https://k6.io).

## Running the Tests

To run the tests:

1. Create an `*.env` file with the desired configuration variables, like so:

   ```env
   ORIGIN=https://staging.tts.wellsaidlabs.com
   API_KEY=XXXXXXXXXXXX
   API_KEY_LOCATION=<header|body>
   ```

Where `ORIGIN` is the HTTP origin of the TTS service that you'd like to test,
and `API_KEY` is the API key that should be used by the tests. Reference the
[Kong Consumers](../ops/gateway/README.md) section of the gateway docs for
instructions on how to generate an api key.

2. Build and run the tests like so:

   ```
   docker run --rm -it --env-file dev.env $(docker build -q .) | tee results_$(date +%Y_%m_%d_%H:%M).txt
   ```

   The results will be written both to stdout and to a a file named
   `results_YYYY_MM_DD_HH:MM.txt` in your working directory.

## Data

Most of the tests use sample data. Data lives in the `data/` directory. If you
add a dataset add a line here noting what the file contains and the
characteristics of the data.

### data/terms.txt

The WellSaidLabs terms of use:
https://wellsaidlabs.com/legal?document=terms_of_service.

Each line is a single paragraph of text. The character distribution per line is
as follows:

```
  11 300-400
  11 200-300
   9 400-500
   8 0-100
   6 500-600
   5 100-200
   3 600-700
   2 700-800
   1 1400-1500
```

Commit message:

added note about load test actors.txt data source

load_test/README.md, after:

# Load Tests

This directory contains code for load tests for assessing the performance and
scalability of the TTS service.

The tests are executed via [k6](https://k6.io).

## Running the Tests

To run the tests:

1. Create an `*.env` file with the desired configuration variables, like so:

   ```env
   ORIGIN=https://staging.tts.wellsaidlabs.com
   API_KEY=XXXXXXXXXXXX
   API_KEY_LOCATION=<header|body>
   ```

Where `ORIGIN` is the HTTP origin of the TTS service that you'd like to test,
and `API_KEY` is the API key that should be used by the tests. Reference the
[Kong Consumers](../ops/gateway/README.md) section of the gateway docs for
instructions on how to generate an api key.

2. Build and run the tests like so:

   ```
   docker run --rm -it --env-file dev.env $(docker build -q .) | tee results_$(date +%Y_%m_%d_%H:%M).txt
   ```

   The results will be written both to stdout and to a a file named
   `results_YYYY_MM_DD_HH:MM.txt` in your working directory.

## Data

Most of the tests use sample data. Data lives in the `data/` directory. If you
add a dataset add a line here noting what the file contains and the
characteristics of the data.

### data/terms.txt

The WellSaidLabs terms of use:
https://wellsaidlabs.com/legal?document=terms_of_service.

Each line is a single paragraph of text. The character distribution per line is
as follows:

```txt
  11 300-400
  11 200-300
   9 400-500
   8 0-100
   6 500-600
   5 100-200
   3 600-700
   2 700-800
   1 1400-1500
```

### data/actors.txt

A list of valid actor ids available in the `latest` model release. This is
helpful in accounting for variances in model output and better reflects API
usage.

```txt
   2
   3
   7
   12
```
