ops/gateway/README.md, before:

# Kong Gateway

This directory contains the configuration and documentation around managing our Kong gateway;
a service which routes traffic to our internal Cloud Run containers.

TODO: reference/resources for quick start using kong
TODO: embed architecture diagram (probably in ../README.md)

## Prerequisites

This document assumes the following dependencies have been installed and [cluster setup](../ClusterSetup.md) has been completed. Additionally, you may need [authorize docker](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/advanced-authentication) in order to push images to the cloud registry.

- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [helm@v3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

## Kong Gateway Configuration

Our current Kong setup leverages the kong [Kubernetes Ingress Controller](https://docs.konghq.com/kubernetes-ingress-controller/).
The controller listens for changes to our kubernetes resources and updates the Kong service
accordingly. This allows us to run Kong in a db-less manor, meaning all of the configurations
are defined using kubernetes manifests and custom resource definitions.

### Configuring the base Kong docker image

The base [Kong image](https://hub.docker.com/_/kong) provides several bundled plugins by default. In order to add custom or third-party plugins to our deployment, we need to rebuild the image to include the plugin _and_ add those plugins to our [kong configuration](./kong/kong.yaml). See [kong plugin distribution](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway-oss/1.0.x/plugin-development/distribution/) for more details.

1. Ensure the custom plugins exist locally (via git submodules)

    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```

1. Setup env variables for image tagging

    ```bash
    export PROJECT_ID=voice-service-2-313121
    export ENV=$ENV # example: staging
    export KONG_IMAGE_VERSION=$KONG_IMAGE_VERSION # ex: v1
    export KONG_IMAGE_TAG="gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/kong-$ENV:$KONG_IMAGE_VERSION"
    ```

1. Build and tag the docker image locally

   ```bash
   docker build -t $KONG_IMAGE_TAG ./ops/gateway/kong
   ```

1. Push the image to our cloud registry

   ```bash
   docker push $KONG_IMAGE_TAG
   ```

   And confirm the tagged image exists:

   ```bash
   docker image ls gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/kong-$ENV
   ```

1. Now that the image exists in our remote registry, we need to update our deployment configuration to properly reference this image. Update the corresponding `kong.$ENV.yaml` like so:

    ```yaml
    image:
      repository: gcr.io/voice-service-2-313121/kong-$ENV
      tag: $KONG_IMAGE_VERSION
    ```

### Configuring the Kong deployment

The configuration for our Kong deployment is located in the `kong.base.yaml` and `kong.$ENV.yaml`
files, where the `kong.$ENV.yaml` file provides environment specific configuration overrides to the
base helm chart config. The first update you will want to make is to configure the static IP
used by the proxy. If you have not setup the static IP yet, see
[Reserving a static IP](../ClusterSetup.md).

```yaml
proxy:
  loadBalancerIP: <STATIC_IP_GOES_HERE>
```

### Configuring the Kubernetes Ingress Controller

## Kong Gateway Deployment

TODO: sanity check: `kubectl config current-context`

Useful commands:

```bash
# List deployments managed by helm
helm list
```

### Deploying the Kong Gateway

The following will deploy the configured Kong gateway along with the Kong
Ingress Controller.

```bash
# We deploy the kong gateway into the kong namespace
kubectl create namespace kong
# Install helm chart, referencing our configurations (order of file paths is important!)
helm install gateway kong/kong \
  --version 2.1.0 \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.base.yaml \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.$ENV.yaml
```

Let's confirm the proxy is live on our cluster.

```bash
# Display the kong proxy service
kubectl get service gateway-kong-proxy
# Using, the External IP from above command, make a request to the proxy
curl -XGET http://$KONG_IP
```

At this point we should get back a 404 response with the following message:
`{"message":"no Route matched with those values"}`. Kong is deployed, but we
have yet to configure any routes/services.

### Deploying the `google-logging` plugin

Logging is currently handled via the [google-logging](https://github.com/SmartParkingTechnology/kong-google-logging-plugin) Kong plugin.

```bash
cd ops/gateway/kong/plugins/
```

1. Setup a service account to allow this plugin to write logs directly to Google Cloud Logging.

    Create the Service Account

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts create kong-google-logging \
      --description="Service account used for writing detailed logs directly from our Kong proxy" \
      --display-name="kong-google-logging"
    ```

    Grant the Service Account an IAM Role that will allow writing to Google Cloud Logging.

    ```bash
    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding voice-service-2-313121 \
      --member="serviceAccount:kong-google-logging@voice-service-2-313121.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
      --role="roles/logging.logWriter"
    ```

    Generate the Service Account Key that the `kong-google-logging` plugin will use to
       authenticate with.

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./kong-google-logging-service-account.secrets.json \
    --iam-account=kong-google-logging@voice-service-2-313121.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

1. Deploy the `google-logging` plugin. Note that the configuration for this plugin includes the
   service account credentials which are stored in a `Secret`.

   ```bash
   jsonnet google-logging.jsonnet \
      -y \
      --tla-str location=us-central1 \
      --tla-str cluster=staging \
      | kubectl apply -f -
   ```

1. Confirm that this plugin has been successfully picked up by the kong ingress controller.

    ```bash
    # Fetch a kong gateway pod
    kubectl get pods -n kong
    # Monitor logs on the `ingress-controller` container. These logs will tell us if the resources
    # deployed in the previous step were synced properly by kong
    kubectl logs POD_NAME -n kong -c ingress-controller --tail=20 --follow
    ```

    Finally, once the plugin is synced by kong we can start reading logs!

    ```bash
    gcloud logging read "labels.source=kong-google-logging" --limit=1
    ```

### Deploying the `latest-version-transformation` plugin

This plugin allows us to "pin" all traffic containing the `Accept-Version: latest`
header to a specific model release. Note that `$LATEST_VERSION` refers to a
model name used during the tts deployment (see ../run/README.md).

```bash
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/latest-pinned-service.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str latestVersion=$LATEST_VERSION \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploying the `cert-manager` and setting up TLS

See [TLS Certificate issuance for HTTPS](../tls/README.md).

### Deploying a fallback/catch-all route

Note that this Ingress resource is also responsible for requesting a TLS
Certificate via the `cert-manager`, see the `fallback-route` Ingress resource
annotations!

```bash
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/fallback-route.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str env=staging \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploying the `key-auth` plugin

The [`key-auth`](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) plugin allows
us to secure our API using API key authorization. It is possible to restrict
access on a route, service, or consumer basis but for now we will be enabling
the key-auth plugin globally.

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/global-key-auth.yaml
```

Once applied, any requests to the gateway will now fail with a 401 Unauthorized
response.

## Kong Gateway Management

### Updating our Kong Gateway configuration

At some point we may want to update our kong configurations (proxy configs,
scaling, resource requirements, etc..). Similar to installing kong, we will
also use `helm` to "upgrade" the release. In the event that the (ROLLBACK)

```bash
helm upgrade gateway kong/kong \
  --version 2.1.0 \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.base.yaml \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.$ENV.yaml
```

### Kong Consumers

Once the `key-auth` plugin is enabled, a `KongConsumer` is required to make
authenticated requests to the API. For reference, see [Provisioning a consumer](https://docs.konghq.com/kubernetes-ingress-controller/1.3.x/guides/using-consumer-credential-resource/#provision-a-consumer).

```bash
# We will be namespacing all of the kong consumers
kubectl create namespace kong-consumers
# Export the username
export KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME=$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME
# Create the consumer!
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/auth/consumer.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str username=$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME \
  --tla-str secretKey="$(python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))')" \
  | kubectl apply -f -
# Once the above resources are created, use the following command can be used
# to display the auto generated secret (api key) for the new consumer.
kubectl get secrets/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer-apikey \
  --template={{.data.key}} \
  -n kong-consumers \
  | base64 -D
```

At this point you should be able to test that the new consumer
credentials are working

```bash
# Should respond with 401 Unauthorized
curl -I https://tts.wellsaidlabs.com
# Should response with a 404 Not Found
curl -I https://tts.wellsaidlabs.com -H "X-Api-Key: $CONSUMER_API_KEY"
```

Listing existing KongConsumers

```bash
kubectl get kongconsumers.configuration.konghq.com -n kong-consumers
```

Delete an existing consumer

```bash
# Delete the KongConsumer
kubectl delete kongconsumers.configuration.konghq.com/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer -n kong-consumers
# Delete the secret
kubectl delete secret/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer-apikey -n kong-consumers
```

### Logging and Metrics

TODO

### Debugging Kong Ingress Controller

The Kong Ingress Controller is in charge of responding to changes in kubernetes
resources and updating kong with the derived configurations (services/routes/plugins). At some point it may be helpful to see what the Kong proxy configuration looks
like.

```bash
# Grab kong gateway pod name
kubectl get pods -n kong
# Grab shell (note the container!)
kubectl exec -it POD_NAME -n kong -c ingress-controller -- /bin/sh
# Run the ingress controller with dump-config flag. This will output config files
# into the /tmp directory. Wait for the 'syncing configuration` output.
/kong-ingress-controller --dump-config=enabled
# output the configuration
cat /tmp/controller.../last_good.json
```

Commit message:

referencing kong image digest instead of tag

ops/gateway/README.md, after:

# Kong Gateway

This directory contains the configuration and documentation around managing our Kong gateway;
a service which routes traffic to our internal Cloud Run containers.

TODO: reference/resources for quick start using kong
TODO: embed architecture diagram (probably in ../README.md)

## Prerequisites

This document assumes the following dependencies have been installed and [cluster setup](../ClusterSetup.md) has been completed. Additionally, you may need [authorize docker](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/advanced-authentication) in order to push images to the cloud registry.

- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [helm@v3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

## Kong Gateway Configuration

Our current Kong setup leverages the kong [Kubernetes Ingress Controller](https://docs.konghq.com/kubernetes-ingress-controller/).
The controller listens for changes to our kubernetes resources and updates the Kong service
accordingly. This allows us to run Kong in a db-less manor, meaning all of the configurations
are defined using kubernetes manifests and custom resource definitions.

### Configuring the base Kong docker image

The base [Kong image](https://hub.docker.com/_/kong) provides several bundled plugins by default. In order to add custom or third-party plugins to our deployment, we need to rebuild the image to include the plugin _and_ add those plugins to our [kong configuration](./kong/kong.yaml). See [kong plugin distribution](https://docs.konghq.com/gateway-oss/1.0.x/plugin-development/distribution/) for more details.

1. Ensure the custom plugins exist locally (via git submodules)

    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```

1. Setup env variables for image tagging

    ```bash
    export PROJECT_ID=voice-service-2-313121
    export ENV=$ENV # example: staging
    export KONG_IMAGE_VERSION=$KONG_IMAGE_VERSION # ex: v1
    export KONG_IMAGE="gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/kong:$ENV-$KONG_IMAGE_VERSION"
    ```

1. Build and tag the docker image locally

   ```bash
   docker build -t $KONG_IMAGE ./ops/gateway/kong
   ```

1. Push the image to our cloud registry

   ```bash
   docker push $KONG_IMAGE
   ```

   And confirm the tagged image exists:

   ```bash
   docker image ls gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/kong
   ```

1. Now that the image exists in our remote registry, we need to update our deployment configuration to properly reference this image. Update the corresponding `kong.$ENV.yaml` like so:

    ```bash
    # Grab the image digest
    docker inspect \
         $KONG_IMAGE \
         --format="{{index .RepoDigests 0}}"
    ```

    ```yaml
    image:
      repository: gcr.io/voice-service-2-313121/kong@sha256
      tag: <IMAGE_DIGEST>
    ```

### Configuring the Kong deployment

The configuration for our Kong deployment is located in the `kong.base.yaml` and `kong.$ENV.yaml`
files, where the `kong.$ENV.yaml` file provides environment specific configuration overrides to the
base helm chart config. The first update you will want to make is to configure the static IP
used by the proxy. If you have not setup the static IP yet, see
[Reserving a static IP](../ClusterSetup.md).

```yaml
proxy:
  loadBalancerIP: <STATIC_IP_GOES_HERE>
```

### Configuring the Kubernetes Ingress Controller

## Kong Gateway Deployment

TODO: sanity check: `kubectl config current-context`

Useful commands:

```bash
# List deployments managed by helm
helm list
```

### Deploying the Kong Gateway

The following will deploy the configured Kong gateway along with the Kong
Ingress Controller.

```bash
# We deploy the kong gateway into the kong namespace
kubectl create namespace kong
# Install helm chart, referencing our configurations (order of file paths is important!)
helm install gateway kong/kong \
  --version 2.1.0 \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.base.yaml \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.$ENV.yaml
```

Let's confirm the proxy is live on our cluster.

```bash
# Display the kong proxy service
kubectl get service gateway-kong-proxy
# Using the External IP from above command, make a request to the proxy
# Note that this should be the static ip reserved during the cluster setup
curl -XGET http://$KONG_IP
```

At this point we should get back a 404 response with the following message:
`{"message":"no Route matched with those values"}`. Kong is deployed, but we
have yet to configure any routes/services.

### Deploying the `google-logging` plugin

Logging is currently handled via the [google-logging](https://github.com/SmartParkingTechnology/kong-google-logging-plugin) Kong plugin.

```bash
cd ops/gateway/kong/plugins/
```

1. Setup a service account to allow this plugin to write logs directly to Google Cloud Logging.

    Create the Service Account

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts create kong-google-logging \
      --description="Service account used for writing detailed logs directly from our Kong proxy" \
      --display-name="kong-google-logging"
    ```

    Grant the Service Account an IAM Role that will allow writing to Google Cloud Logging.

    ```bash
    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding voice-service-2-313121 \
      --member="serviceAccount:kong-google-logging@voice-service-2-313121.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
      --role="roles/logging.logWriter"
    ```

    Generate the Service Account Key that the `kong-google-logging` plugin will use to
       authenticate with.

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./kong-google-logging-service-account.secrets.json \
    --iam-account=kong-google-logging@voice-service-2-313121.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

1. Deploy the `google-logging` plugin. Note that the configuration for this plugin includes the
   service account credentials which are stored in a `Secret`.

   ```bash
   jsonnet google-logging.jsonnet \
      -y \
      --tla-str location=us-central1 \
      --tla-str cluster=staging \
      | kubectl apply -f -
   ```

1. Confirm that this plugin has been successfully picked up by the kong ingress controller.

    ```bash
    # Fetch a kong gateway pod
    kubectl get pods -n kong
    # Monitor logs on the `ingress-controller` container. These logs will tell us if the resources
    # deployed in the previous step were synced properly by kong
    kubectl logs POD_NAME -n kong -c ingress-controller --tail=20 --follow
    ```

    Finally, once the plugin is synced by kong we can start reading logs!

    ```bash
    gcloud logging read "labels.source=kong-google-logging" --limit=1
    ```

### Deploying the `latest-version-transformation` plugin

This plugin allows us to "pin" all traffic containing the `Accept-Version: latest`
header to a specific model release. Note that `$LATEST_VERSION` refers to a
model name used during the tts deployment (see ../run/README.md).

```bash
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/latest-pinned-service.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str latestVersion=$LATEST_VERSION \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploying the `cert-manager` and setting up TLS

See [TLS Certificate issuance for HTTPS](../tls/README.md).

### Deploying a fallback/catch-all route

Note that this Ingress resource is also responsible for requesting a TLS
Certificate via the `cert-manager`, see the `fallback-route` Ingress resource
annotations!

```bash
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/fallback-route.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str env=staging \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Deploying the `key-auth` plugin

The [`key-auth`](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) plugin allows
us to secure our API using API key authorization. It is possible to restrict
access on a route, service, or consumer basis but for now we will be enabling
the key-auth plugin globally.

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./ops/gateway/kong/plugins/global-key-auth.yaml
```

Once applied, any requests to the gateway will now fail with a 401 Unauthorized
response.

## Kong Gateway Management

### Updating our Kong Gateway configuration

At some point we may want to update our kong configurations (proxy configs,
scaling, resource requirements, etc..). Similar to installing kong, we will
also use `helm` to "upgrade" the release. In the event that the (ROLLBACK)

```bash
helm upgrade gateway kong/kong \
  --version 2.1.0 \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.base.yaml \
  -f ./ops/gateway/kong/kong.$ENV.yaml
```

### Kong Consumers

Once the `key-auth` plugin is enabled, a `KongConsumer` is required to make
authenticated requests to the API. For reference, see [Provisioning a consumer](https://docs.konghq.com/kubernetes-ingress-controller/1.3.x/guides/using-consumer-credential-resource/#provision-a-consumer).

```bash
# We will be namespacing all of the kong consumers
kubectl create namespace kong-consumers
# Export the username
export KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME=$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME
# Create the consumer!
jsonnet ./ops/gateway/kong/auth/consumer.jsonnet \
  -y \
  --tla-str username=$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME \
  --tla-str secretKey="$(python -c 'import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))')" \
  | kubectl apply -f -
# Once the above resources are created, use the following command can be used
# to display the auto generated secret (api key) for the new consumer.
kubectl get secrets/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer-apikey \
  --template={{.data.key}} \
  -n kong-consumers \
  | base64 -D
```

At this point you should be able to test that the new consumer
credentials are working

```bash
# Should respond with 401 Unauthorized
curl -I https://tts.wellsaidlabs.com
# Should response with a 404 Not Found
curl -I https://tts.wellsaidlabs.com -H "X-Api-Key: $CONSUMER_API_KEY"
```

Listing existing KongConsumers

```bash
kubectl get kongconsumers.configuration.konghq.com -n kong-consumers
```

Delete an existing consumer

```bash
# Delete the KongConsumer
kubectl delete kongconsumers.configuration.konghq.com/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer -n kong-consumers
# Delete the secret
kubectl delete secret/$KONG_CONSUMER_USERNAME-consumer-apikey -n kong-consumers
```

### Logging and Metrics

TODO

### Debugging Kong Ingress Controller

The Kong Ingress Controller is in charge of responding to changes in kubernetes
resources and updating kong with the derived configurations (services/routes/plugins). At some point it may be helpful to see what the Kong proxy configuration looks
like.

```bash
# Grab kong gateway pod name
kubectl get pods -n kong
# Grab shell (note the container!)
kubectl exec -it POD_NAME -n kong -c ingress-controller -- /bin/sh
# Run the ingress controller with dump-config flag. This will output config files
# into the /tmp directory. Wait for the 'syncing configuration` output.
/kong-ingress-controller --dump-config=enabled
# output the configuration
cat /tmp/controller.../last_good.json
```
