docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Thanks for considering contributing!

## How Can I Contribute?

### Do you have an experiment to contribute?

To contribute an experiment, you'll need to document your Tensorboard and code changes. First,
sync you experiment to the GCP ``tensorboard`` server as documented in ``GCP_WORKFLOW.md``.

Then, submit a pull request to our
[GitHub](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs) documenting the experiment
with a link to the experiment.

If you are contributing a new model to Tensorboard for which you'd like a separate
Tensorboard, create one:

    # SSH into tensorboard server
    gcloud compute ssh tensorboard

    # Create a background process
    screen

    # Pick some port between 6000-6999
    tensorboard --logdir=path/to/your/experiment --port='6000' --window_title='Your Model'

### Did you find a bug?

First, do [a quick search](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues) to
see whether your issue has already been reported. If your issue has already been reported, please
comment on the existing issue.

Otherwise, open
[a new GitHub issue](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues). Be sure
to include a clear title and description. The description should include as much relevant
information as possible. The description should explain how to reproduce the erroneous behavior as
well as the behavior you expect to see. Ideally you would include a code sample or an executable
test case demonstrating the expected behavior.

### Did you write a fix for a bug?

Open [a new GitHub pull request](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/pulls)
with the fix. Make sure you have a clear description of the problem and the solution, and include a
link to relevant issues.

Once your pull request is created, our continuous build system will check your pull request.
Continuous build will test that:

* [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) All tests pass
* [`flake8`](https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8) accepts the code style
  (our guidelines are based on PEP8)
* Test coverage remains high. Please add unit tests so we maintain our code coverage.

If your code fails one of these checks, you will be expected to fix your pull request before it is
considered.

You can run most of these tests locally with `./build_tools/travis/*`, which will be faster than
waiting for cloud systems to run tests.

### Do you have a suggestion for an enhancement?

We use GitHub issues to track enhancement requests.  Before you create an enhancement request:

* Make sure you have a clear idea of the enhancement you would like.  If you have a vague idea,
  consider discussing it first on the users list.

* Check the documentation to make sure your feature does not already exist.

* Do [a quick search](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues) to see
  whether your enhancement has already been suggested.

When creating your enhancement request, please:

* Provide a clear title and description.

* Explain why the enhancement would be useful.  It may be helpful to highlight the feature in other
  libraries.

* Include code examples to demonstrate how the enhancement would be used.

Commit message:

Draft changes for comet.ml

docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thanks for considering contributing!

## How Can I Contribute?

### Do you have an experiment to contribute?

To contribute an experiment, run the associated executables. Remember to document your
experimental results in comet.ml.

### Did you find a bug?

First, do [a quick search](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues) to
see whether your issue has already been reported. If your issue has already been reported, please
comment on the existing issue.

Otherwise, open
[a new GitHub issue](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues). Be sure
to include a clear title and description. The description should include as much relevant
information as possible. The description should explain how to reproduce the erroneous behavior as
well as the behavior you expect to see. Ideally you would include a code sample or an executable
test case demonstrating the expected behavior.

### Did you write a fix for a bug?

Open [a new GitHub pull request](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/pulls)
with the fix. Make sure you have a clear description of the problem and the solution, and include a
link to relevant issues.

Once your pull request is created, our continuous build system will check your pull request.
Continuous build will test that:

* [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) All tests pass
* [`flake8`](https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8) accepts the code style
  (our guidelines are based on PEP8)
* Test coverage remains high. Please add unit tests so we maintain our code coverage.

If your code fails one of these checks, you will be expected to fix your pull request before it is
considered.

You can run most of these tests locally with `./build_tools/travis/*`, which will be faster than
waiting for cloud systems to run tests.

### Do you have a suggestion for an enhancement?

We use GitHub issues to track enhancement requests.  Before you create an enhancement request:

* Make sure you have a clear idea of the enhancement you would like.  If you have a vague idea,
  consider discussing it first on the users list.

* Check the documentation to make sure your feature does not already exist.

* Do [a quick search](https://github.com/AI2Incubator/WellSaidLabs/issues) to see
  whether your enhancement has already been suggested.

When creating your enhancement request, please:

* Provide a clear title and description.

* Explain why the enhancement would be useful.  It may be helpful to highlight the feature in other
  libraries.

* Include code examples to demonstrate how the enhancement would be used.
