docs/CREATE_DATASET.md, before:

# Getting Started Creating a Text-to-Speech Dataset

This will be walking you through the process of creating a text-to-speech dataset.

## Prerequisites

Setup your local development environment by following [these instructions](LOCAL_SETUP.md).

## 1. Upload scripts and recordings

First, you'll need to upload scripts and recordings to
[wellsaid_labs_datasets](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/wellsaid_labs_datasets;tab=objects?project=voice-research-255602)
. The uploaded directory should look similar to this example...

```bash
└── wellsaid_labs_datasets
    ├── hilary_noriega
    │   ├── scripts
    │   │   ├── DIPHONE_Script-1.csv
    │   │   ├── DIPHONE_Script-2.csv
    │   │   ...
    │   │   ├── ENTHUSIASTIC_Script-1.csv
    │   │   └── ENTHUSIASTIC_Script-2.csv
    │   └── recordings
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_Script-DIPHONE-1.wav
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_Script-DIPHONE-2.wav
    │       ...
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_ENTHUSIASTIC_Script 1.wav
    │       └── WSL_ActorShmactor_ENTHUSIASTIC_Script 2.wav
    └── ....
```

The script files must be in a CSV format that contains a column called "Content" filled in with
the script the voice actor read. The audio files can be in any audio format that's compatible
with `ffmpeg`. Lastly, there should be one script per audio file, similarly named.

Aside from that, for this dataset to be useful, it must be consistent. The TTS will be a
reflection of the dataset. For example, here are a couple of consistencies you should
watch out for:

- Aside from changes in the content, the voice-over pitch, timbre (tone color) and loudness
  should stay consistent.
- Unless there is additional context given, the voice-over should not change prosody or language.
- The voice-over noise level shouldn't change.
- The environment in which the voice-over is recorded in, should not change.
- The script should be an accurate transcription of the recordings, and it should not contain any
  funky characters.

## 2. Process data

### Make a virtual machine (VM)

In order to process the scripts and recordings, you'll need to make a virtual machine.

1. Set these variables...

   ```zsh
   VM_NAME=$USER"-dataset-processing" # EXAMPLE: michaelp-dataset-processing
   # NOTE: Pick a zone that's closest to the GCS bucket `wellsaid_labs_datasets`.
   VM_ZONE=us-central1-a # EXAMPLE: us-central1-a

   PROJECT=voice-research-255602
   VM_MACHINE_TYPE=n1-standard-2
   gcloud config set project $PROJECT
   gcloud auth application-default set-quota-project $PROJECT
   ```

1. Create a VM, like so...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute instances create $VM_NAME \
      --zone=$VM_ZONE \
      --machine-type=$VM_MACHINE_TYPE \
      --boot-disk-size=512GB \
      --boot-disk-type=pd-ssd \
      --scopes=https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform \
      --image-family=ubuntu-2004-lts \
      --image-project=ubuntu-os-cloud
   ```

   ❓ NOTE: 24-hours of "n1-standard-2" VM usage can cost up to 3$.

1. From your local machine, `ssh` into your new VM instance, like so...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME --command="sudo chmod -R a+rwx /opt"
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME --command="mkdir /opt/wellsaid-labs"
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME
   ```

   These commands may exit with the return code 255, if so, try again.

1. In another terminal window, run `lsyncd` to sync your local files to your virtual machine...

   ```zsh
   VM_NAME=$(python -m run.utils.gcp most-recent --filter "dataset-processing")
   VM_ZONE=$(python -m run.utils.gcp zone --name $VM_NAME)
   VM_IP=$(python -m run.utils.gcp ip --name $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE)
   VM_USER=$(python -m run.utils.gcp user --name $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE)
   ```

   ```zsh
   sudo python3 -m run.utils.lsyncd $(pwd) /opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech \
                                    --public-dns $VM_IP \
                                    --user $VM_USER \
                                    --identity-file ~/.ssh/google_compute_engine
   ```

1. Back on the VM, install dependencies, like so...

   ```bash
   cd /opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech
   sudo apt-get update
   . run/utils/apt_install.sh
   ```

### Screen sessions

Create a virtual environment for processing.
   ```
   python3.8 -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate
   python -m pip install wheel pip --upgrade
   python -m pip install -r requirements.txt --upgrade
   ```
If aligning data for multiple speakers, it can be helpful to process each in their own named screen session

   ```
   screen -S [name]
   ```
Press any key.

   ```
   . venv/bin/activate
   ```
At any time, press `ctrl+a, d` to detach from the screen session. Then `screen -r [name]` to reattach to the session named `[name]`.

### Download Data

1. Set these variables...

   ```bash
   NAME=actor_name # Example: hilary_noriega
   ```
   ```
   ROOT=/opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech/disk/data/$NAME
   PROCESSED=$ROOT/processed
   GCS_URI=gs://wellsaid_labs_datasets/$NAME
   ENCODING=.wav # Example: .wav, .mp3
   ```

1. Download the dataset, like so...

   ```bash
   mkdir -p $ROOT
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $GCS_URI/scripts $ROOT/
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $GCS_URI/recordings $ROOT/
   ```

### Process data

1. (Optional) Ensure the directories have similar numberings...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data numberings $ROOT/scripts $ROOT/recordings
   ```

1. Normalize file names...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data rename $ROOT/
   ```

1. (Optional) Evaluate the recording and script files...

   1. Ensure the recording and script pairings make sense.
   1. Investigate any WAV or CSV outliers (very small files paired with very large files, for
      example, could indicate a mismatch or a bad file)
   1. Ensure CSV files are < 100k characters and WAV files are < 1.5 hours (5,400 seconds). The
      files should be split up if they are too big before proceeding.

      > **NOTE**: Any pairings longer than these limits must be split into smaller chunks in order
      > to process:
      >
      > - Use an audio processing software (Adobe Audition, e.g.) to splice the audio into chunks
      > ~1 hour or less
      > - Use a CSV editor to splice the corresponding CSVs at the same spot
      > - Upload these new chunks back to GCS
      > - Move the longer original WAV and CSV files into an archive directory in GCS along with a
      > README.txt file explaining why this archive exists

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED
   RECORDINGS=$(ls $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING | python -m run.utils.sort)
   SCRIPTS=$(ls $ROOT/scripts/*.csv | python -m run.utils.sort)
   python -m run.data pair $(python -m run.utils.prefix --recording $RECORDINGS) \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --script $SCRIPTS) \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/script-recordings-pair.log
   ```

   💡 TIP: Learn more about `2>&1 | tee`, here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/418896/how-to-redirect-output-to-a-file-and-stdout

1. (Optional) Review dataset audio file format(s) for inconsistencies...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data audio print-format $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-format.log
   ```

1. Normalize audio file format...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/recordings
   python -m run.data audio normalize $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING $PROCESSED/recordings \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-normalize.log
   ```

1. (Optional) Review audio file loudness for inconsistencies...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data audio loudness $PROCESSED/recordings/*$ENCODING \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-loudness.log
   ```

1. Normalize audio file format for
   [Google speech-to-text](https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/encoding)...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/speech_to_text
   python -m run.data audio normalize $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING $PROCESSED/speech_to_text \
                                      --data-type='signed-integer' --bits=16 \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-normalize-stt.log
   ```

1. Normalize CSV file text...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/scripts
   python -m run.data csv normalize $ROOT/scripts/*.csv $PROCESSED/scripts \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/csv-normalize.log
   ```

1. Upload the processed files back to GCS, like so...

   ```bash
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $PROCESSED/ $GCS_URI/processed
   ```

1. (Optional) From your local machine, review CSV normalization, like so...

   ```zsh
   NAME=actor_name # Example: hilary_noriega
   GCS_URI=gs://wellsaid_labs_datasets/$NAME
   python -m run.data diff "$GCS_URI/scripts/Script 1 - Hilary.csv" \
                           "$GCS_URI/processed/scripts/script_1_-_hilary.csv"
   ```

   💡 TIP: This script can be run to compare log files generated by `sync_script_with_audio`.

1. Generate time alignments that synchronize the scripts and recordings...

   ```bash
   RECORDINGS=$(gsutil ls "$GCS_URI/processed/speech_to_text/*.wav" | python -m run.utils.sort)
   SCRIPTS=$(gsutil ls "$GCS_URI/processed/scripts/*.csv" | python -m run.utils.sort)
   python -m run.data.sync_script_with_audio \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --voice-over $RECORDINGS) \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --script $SCRIPTS) \
      --destination $GCS_URI/processed/
   ```

   ❓ NOTE: 20-hours of audio can cost up to 50$ to transcribe.

   Audit the results of the synchronization, and re-run the script if necessary. The issues that may
   arise are:

   - The sorting didn't work, and the script files didn't match up with the voice-over files,
     correctly.
   - The voice-over includes too much, or too little audio.
   - The voice-over skips phrases in the script. For example, the script has odd characters or
     duplicate phrases that are not read by the voice-actor.
   - Google’s speech recognition made a mistake.

   Most of these issues can be resolved by updating the script or recording, and rerunning the
   synchronization.

## 3. Clean up

1. Kill your `lsyncd` process by typing `Ctrl-C`.

1. Exit your VM with the `exit` command.

1. Delete your instance...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute instances delete $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE
   ```

Commit message:

+ Remove outdated comment + Make "Screen sessions" optional + Ensure markdown doesn't exceed 100 characters in length + Update speaker names to not sure abbreviations + Make code a bit more succinct

docs/CREATE_DATASET.md, after:

# Getting Started Creating a Text-to-Speech Dataset

This will be walking you through the process of creating a text-to-speech dataset.

## Prerequisites

Setup your local development environment by following [these instructions](LOCAL_SETUP.md).

## 1. Upload scripts and recordings

First, you'll need to upload scripts and recordings to
[wellsaid_labs_datasets](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/wellsaid_labs_datasets;tab=objects?project=voice-research-255602)
. The uploaded directory should look similar to this example...

```bash
└── wellsaid_labs_datasets
    ├── hilary_noriega
    │   ├── scripts
    │   │   ├── DIPHONE_Script-1.csv
    │   │   ├── DIPHONE_Script-2.csv
    │   │   ...
    │   │   ├── ENTHUSIASTIC_Script-1.csv
    │   │   └── ENTHUSIASTIC_Script-2.csv
    │   └── recordings
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_Script-DIPHONE-1.wav
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_Script-DIPHONE-2.wav
    │       ...
    │       ├── WSL_ActorShmactor_ENTHUSIASTIC_Script 1.wav
    │       └── WSL_ActorShmactor_ENTHUSIASTIC_Script 2.wav
    └── ....
```

The script files must be in a CSV format that contains a column called "Content" filled in with
the script the voice actor read. The audio files can be in any audio format that's compatible
with `ffmpeg`. Lastly, there should be one script per audio file, similarly named.

Aside from that, for this dataset to be useful, it must be consistent. The TTS will be a
reflection of the dataset. For example, here are a couple of consistencies you should
watch out for:

- Aside from changes in the content, the voice-over pitch, timbre (tone color) and loudness
  should stay consistent.
- Unless there is additional context given, the voice-over should not change prosody or language.
- The voice-over noise level shouldn't change.
- The environment in which the voice-over is recorded in, should not change.
- The script should be an accurate transcription of the recordings, and it should not contain any
  funky characters.

## 2. Process data

### Make a virtual machine (VM)

In order to process the scripts and recordings, you'll need to make a virtual machine.

1. Set these variables...

   ```zsh
   VM_NAME=$USER"-dataset-processing" # EXAMPLE: michaelp-dataset-processing
   # NOTE: Pick a zone that's closest to the GCS bucket `wellsaid_labs_datasets`.
   VM_ZONE=us-central1-a # EXAMPLE: us-central1-a

   PROJECT=voice-research-255602
   VM_MACHINE_TYPE=n1-standard-2
   gcloud config set project $PROJECT
   gcloud auth application-default set-quota-project $PROJECT
   ```

1. Create a VM, like so...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute instances create $VM_NAME \
      --zone=$VM_ZONE \
      --machine-type=$VM_MACHINE_TYPE \
      --boot-disk-size=512GB \
      --boot-disk-type=pd-ssd \
      --scopes=https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform \
      --image-family=ubuntu-2004-lts \
      --image-project=ubuntu-os-cloud
   ```

   ❓ NOTE: 24-hours of "n1-standard-2" VM usage can cost up to 3$.

1. From your local machine, `ssh` into your new VM instance, like so...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME --command="sudo chmod -R a+rwx /opt"
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME --command="mkdir /opt/wellsaid-labs"
   gcloud compute ssh --zone=$VM_ZONE $VM_NAME
   ```

   These commands may exit with the return code 255, if so, try again.

1. In another terminal window, run `lsyncd` to sync your local files to your virtual machine...

   ```zsh
   VM_NAME=$(python -m run.utils.gcp most-recent --filter "dataset-processing")
   VM_ZONE=$(python -m run.utils.gcp zone --name $VM_NAME)
   VM_IP=$(python -m run.utils.gcp ip --name $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE)
   VM_USER=$(python -m run.utils.gcp user --name $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE)
   ```

   ```zsh
   sudo python3 -m run.utils.lsyncd $(pwd) /opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech \
                                    --public-dns $VM_IP \
                                    --user $VM_USER \
                                    --identity-file ~/.ssh/google_compute_engine
   ```

1. Back on the VM, install dependencies, like so...

   ```bash
   cd /opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech
   sudo apt-get update
   . run/utils/apt_install.sh
   ```

1. Create a virtual environment for processing and install Python dependencies onto the VM,
   like so...

   ```bash
   python3.8 -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate
   python -m pip install wheel pip --upgrade
   python -m pip install -r requirements.txt --upgrade
   ```

### Screen sessions (Optional)

1. If aligning data for multiple speakers, it can be helpful to process each in their own named
   screen session.

   ```bash
   screen -S [name]
   ```

1. Press any key.

   ```bash
   . venv/bin/activate
   ```

1. At any time, press `ctrl+a, d` to detach from the screen session. Then `screen -r [name]` to
   reattach to the session named `[name]`.

### Download Data

1. Set these variables...

   ```bash
   NAME=actor_name # Example: hilary_noriega
   ```

   ```bash
   ROOT=/opt/wellsaid-labs/Text-to-Speech/disk/data/$NAME
   PROCESSED=$ROOT/processed
   GCS_URI=gs://wellsaid_labs_datasets/$NAME
   ENCODING=.wav # Example: .wav, .mp3
   ```

1. Download the dataset, like so...

   ```bash
   mkdir -p $ROOT
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $GCS_URI/scripts $ROOT/
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $GCS_URI/recordings $ROOT/
   ```

### Process data

1. (Optional) Ensure the directories have similar numberings...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data numberings $ROOT/scripts $ROOT/recordings
   ```

1. Normalize file names...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data rename $ROOT/
   ```

1. (Optional) Evaluate the recording and script files...

   1. Ensure the recording and script pairings make sense.
   1. Investigate any WAV or CSV outliers (very small files paired with very large files, for
      example, could indicate a mismatch or a bad file)
   1. Ensure CSV files are < 100k characters and WAV files are < 1.5 hours (5,400 seconds). The
      files should be split up if they are too big before proceeding.

      > **NOTE**: Any pairings longer than these limits must be split into smaller chunks in order
      > to process:
      >
      > - Use an audio processing software (Adobe Audition, e.g.) to splice the audio into chunks
      > ~1 hour or less
      > - Use a CSV editor to splice the corresponding CSVs at the same spot
      > - Upload these new chunks back to GCS
      > - Move the longer original WAV and CSV files into an archive directory in GCS along with a
      > README.txt file explaining why this archive exists

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED
   RECORDINGS=$(ls $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING | python -m run.utils.sort)
   SCRIPTS=$(ls $ROOT/scripts/*.csv | python -m run.utils.sort)
   python -m run.data pair $(python -m run.utils.prefix --recording $RECORDINGS) \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --script $SCRIPTS) \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/script-recordings-pair.log
   ```

   💡 TIP: Learn more about `2>&1 | tee`, here:
   https://stackoverflow.com/questions/418896/how-to-redirect-output-to-a-file-and-stdout

1. (Optional) Review dataset audio file format(s) for inconsistencies...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data audio print-format $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-format.log
   ```

1. Normalize audio file format...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/recordings
   python -m run.data audio normalize $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING $PROCESSED/recordings \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-normalize.log
   ```

1. (Optional) Review audio file loudness for inconsistencies...

   ```bash
   python -m run.data audio loudness $PROCESSED/recordings/*$ENCODING \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-loudness.log
   ```

1. Normalize audio file format for
   [Google speech-to-text](https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/encoding)...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/speech_to_text
   python -m run.data audio normalize $ROOT/recordings/*$ENCODING $PROCESSED/speech_to_text \
                                      --data-type='signed-integer' --bits=16 \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/audio-normalize-stt.log
   ```

1. Normalize CSV file text...

   ```bash
   mkdir $PROCESSED/scripts
   python -m run.data csv normalize $ROOT/scripts/*.csv $PROCESSED/scripts \
      2>&1 | tee $PROCESSED/csv-normalize.log
   ```

1. Upload the processed files back to GCS, like so...

   ```bash
   gsutil -m cp -r -n $PROCESSED/ $GCS_URI/processed
   ```

1. (Optional) From your local machine, review CSV normalization, like so...

   ```zsh
   NAME=actor_name # Example: hilary_noriega
   GCS_URI=gs://wellsaid_labs_datasets/$NAME
   python -m run.data diff "$GCS_URI/scripts/Script 1 - Hilary.csv" \
                           "$GCS_URI/processed/scripts/script_1_-_hilary.csv"
   ```

   💡 TIP: This script can be run to compare log files generated by `sync_script_with_audio`.

1. Generate time alignments that synchronize the scripts and recordings...

   ```bash
   RECORDINGS=$(gsutil ls "$GCS_URI/processed/speech_to_text/*.wav" | python -m run.utils.sort)
   SCRIPTS=$(gsutil ls "$GCS_URI/processed/scripts/*.csv" | python -m run.utils.sort)
   python -m run.data.sync_script_with_audio \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --voice-over $RECORDINGS) \
      $(python -m run.utils.prefix --script $SCRIPTS) \
      --destination $GCS_URI/processed/
   ```

   ❓ NOTE: 20-hours of audio can cost up to 50$ to transcribe.

   Audit the results of the synchronization, and re-run the script if necessary. The issues that may
   arise are:

   - The sorting didn't work, and the script files didn't match up with the voice-over files,
     correctly.
   - The voice-over includes too much, or too little audio.
   - The voice-over skips phrases in the script. For example, the script has odd characters or
     duplicate phrases that are not read by the voice-actor.
   - Google’s speech recognition made a mistake.

   Most of these issues can be resolved by updating the script or recording, and rerunning the
   synchronization.

## 3. Clean up

1. Kill your `lsyncd` process by typing `Ctrl-C`.

1. Exit your VM with the `exit` command.

1. Delete your instance...

   ```zsh
   gcloud compute instances delete $VM_NAME --zone=$VM_ZONE
   ```
