ops/ClusterSetup.md, before:

# GKE Cluster Setup

This document details how to setup a new GKE cluster that's intended to act 
as an execution runtime for the TTS service.

1. First enable the required services. You'll only need to do this once per 
   Google Cloud Project.

    ```
    gcloud services enable \
        container.googleapis.com \
        containerregistry.googleapis.com \
        cloudbuild.googleapis.com \
    ```

2. Next, create a GKE cluster:

    ```
    export name="dev"
    gcloud beta container clusters create "$name" \
        --region "us-central1" \
        --no-enable-basic-auth \
        --release-channel "regular" \
        --machine-type "n1-highcpu-8" \
        --image-type "COS_CONTAINERD" \
        --disk-type "pd-ssd" \
        --disk-size "100" \
        --metadata disable-legacy-endpoints=true \
        --scopes "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append" \
        --num-nodes "1" \
        --enable-stackdriver-kubernetes \
        --enable-ip-alias \
        --no-enable-intra-node-visibility \
        --default-max-pods-per-node "110" \
        --enable-autoscaling \
        --min-nodes "0" \
        --max-nodes "9" \
        --enable-dataplane-v2 \
        --no-enable-master-authorized-networks \
        --addons HorizontalPodAutoscaling,HttpLoadBalancing,CloudRun,GcePersistentDiskCsiDriver \
        --enable-autoupgrade \
        --enable-autorepair \
        --max-surge-upgrade 6 \
        --max-unavailable-upgrade 0 \
        --maintenance-window-start "2021-05-08T07:00:00Z" \
        --maintenance-window-end "2021-05-08T11:00:00Z" \
        --maintenance-window-recurrence "FREQ=WEEKLY;BYDAY=MO,TU,WE,TH,FR,SA,SU" \
        --enable-shielded-nodes
    ```

3. Then read the [instructions for deploying the TTS service](./run/README.md).

Commit message:

saving state, documentation of kong deployment and kong-google-logging plugin added, added flag for cluster setup that specifies internal routing for cloud run

ops/ClusterSetup.md, after:

# GKE Cluster Setup

This document details how to setup a new GKE cluster that's intended to act
as an execution runtime for the TTS service.

1. First enable the required services. You'll only need to do this once per
   Google Cloud Project.

    ```
    gcloud services enable \
        container.googleapis.com \
        containerregistry.googleapis.com \
        cloudbuild.googleapis.com \
    ```

2. Next, create a GKE cluster:

    ```
    export name="dev"
    gcloud beta container clusters create "$name" \
        --region "us-central1" \
        --no-enable-basic-auth \
        --release-channel "regular" \
        --machine-type "n1-highcpu-8" \
        --image-type "COS_CONTAINERD" \
        --disk-type "pd-ssd" \
        --disk-size "100" \
        --metadata disable-legacy-endpoints=true \
        --scopes "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly","https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append" \
        --num-nodes "1" \
        --enable-stackdriver-kubernetes \
        --enable-ip-alias \
        --no-enable-intra-node-visibility \
        --default-max-pods-per-node "110" \
        --enable-autoscaling \
        --min-nodes "0" \
        --max-nodes "9" \
        --enable-dataplane-v2 \
        --no-enable-master-authorized-networks \
        --addons HorizontalPodAutoscaling,HttpLoadBalancing,CloudRun,GcePersistentDiskCsiDriver \
        --enable-autoupgrade \
        --enable-autorepair \
        --max-surge-upgrade 6 \
        --max-unavailable-upgrade 0 \
        --maintenance-window-start "2021-05-08T07:00:00Z" \
        --maintenance-window-end "2021-05-08T11:00:00Z" \
        --maintenance-window-recurrence "FREQ=WEEKLY;BYDAY=MO,TU,WE,TH,FR,SA,SU" \
        --enable-shielded-nodes \
        --cloud-run-config=load-balancer-type=INTERNAL
    ```

3. Then read the [instructions for deploying the TTS service](./run/README.md).
